# D3Feat repository

TensorFlow implementation of D3Feat for CVPR'2020 paper [](), by Xuyang Bai, Zixin Luo, Lei Zhou, Hongbo Fu, Long Quan and Chiew-Lan Tai.

This paper focus on dense feature detection and description for 3D point clouds in a joint manner. If you find this project useful, please cite:

```bash

```

## Installation

* Create the environment and install the required libaries:

           conda env create -f environment.yml

* Compile the customized Tensorflow operators located in `tf_custom_ops`. Open a terminal in this folder, and run:

          sh compile_op.sh

* Compile the C++ extension module for python located in `cpp_wrappers`. Open a terminal in this folder, and run:

          sh compile_wrappers.sh
          
The code is heavily borrowed from [KPConv](https://github.com/HuguesTHOMAS/KPConv/). You can find the guidance for compiling the tensorflow operators and C++ wrappers in [INSTALL.md](https://github.com/HuguesTHOMAS/KPConv/blob/master/INSTALL.md).

      
## Dataset Download

**3DMatch**

The training set of [3DMatch[1]](#refs) can be downloaded from [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Vo-D_NOs4HS9wwAE-55ggDpgaPfzdRRt/view?usp=sharing). It is generated by `datasets/cal_overlap.py` which select all the point cloud fragments pairs having more than 30% overlap.

The test set point clouds and the evaluation files(for registration recall) can be downloaded from [3DMatch Geometric Registration website.](http://3dmatch.cs.princeton.edu/#geometric-registration-benchmark)

Please put the training set under `data/3DMatch` folder and the test set under `data/3DMatch/fragments`. And I have already put the ground truth poses in the `geometric_registration/gt_result` folder.

**KITTI**

The training and test set can be download from [KITTI Odometry website.](http://www.cvlibs.net/datasets/kitti/eval_odometry.php) I follow the [FCGF[3]](#refs) for pre-processing.

**ETH**

The test set (we only use ETH dataset to evaluate the generalization ability of our method) can be downloaded from [here](https://share.phys.ethz.ch/~gsg/3DSmoothNet/data/ETH.rar). Detail instructions can be found in [PerfectMatch[2]](#refs).

## Instructions to training and testing

### 3DMatch

The training on 3DMatch dataset can be done by running
```bash
python training_3dmatch.py
```
This file contains a configuration subclass `ThreeDMatchConfig`, inherited from the general configuration class Config defined in `utils/config.py`. The value of every parameter can be modified in the subclass. The default path to 3DMatch training set is `data/3DMatch`, which can be changed in `dataset/ThreeDMatch.py`. 

The testing with the pretrained models on 3DMatch can by easily done by changing the path of log in `test_3dmatch.py` file

```python
chosen_log = 'path_to_pretrained_log'
```

and runing

```bash
python test_3dmatch.py
```

The descriptors and detection scores for each point will be generated and saved in `geometric_registration` folder. Then the `feature matching recall` and `inlier ratio` can be caluclated by running
```bash
cd geometric_registration/
python evaluate.py D3Feat [timestr of the model]
```
The `registration recall` can be calculated by running the `evaluate.m` in `geometric_registration/3dmatch` which are provided by [3DMatch.](https://github.com/andyzeng/3dmatch-toolbox/tree/master/evaluation/geometric-registration)


### KITTI
Similarly, the training and testing of KITTI data set can be done by running
```bash
python training_KITTI.py
```
And 
```bash
python test_KITTI.py
```

### Keypoint Repeatability

For keypoint repeatability, after generating the descriptors and detection scores, then run

```bash
python evaluate_3dmatch_our.py D3Feat [timestr of the model]
```

or

```bash
python evaluate_kitti_our.py D3Feat [timestr of the model]
```



## Pretrained Model

We provide the pre-trained model of 3DMatch in `results/` and KITTI in `results_kitti/`

## References
<a name="refs"></a>

[1] 3DMatch: Learning Local Geometric Descriptors from RGB-D Reconstructions, Andy Zeng, Shuran Song, Matthias Nießner, Matthew Fisher, Jianxiong Xiao, and Thomas Funkhouser, CVPR 2017.

[2] The Perfect Match: 3D Point Cloud Matching with Smoothed Densities, Zan Gojcic, Caifa Zhou, Jan D. Wegner, and Andreas Wieser, CVPR 2019.

[3] Fully Convolutional Geometric Features: Christopher Choy and Jaesik Park and Vladlen Koltun, ICCV 2019.

